# 🤓 Decentralized Crypto Wallet

Cryptocurrency wallets store users’ public and private keys while providing an easy-to-use interface to manage crypto balances. They also support cryptocurrency transfers through the [blockchain](https://crypto.com/university/what-is-blockchain-consensus?utm\_source=crypto.com+university\&utm\_medium=referral\&utm\_campaign=what+is+a+crypto+wallet\&utm\_content=blockchain). Some wallets even allow users to perform certain actions with their crypto assets such as buying and selling or interacting with [decentralised applications (](https://crypto.com/university/decentralised-finance-defi-intro?utm\_source=crypto.com+university\&utm\_medium=referral\&utm\_campaign=what+is+a+crypto+wallet\&utm\_content=decentralised+applications+%28dapps%29)[d](https://crypto.com/university/decentralised-finance-defi-intro?utm\_source=crypto.com+university\&utm\_medium=referral\&utm\_campaign=what+is+a+crypto+wallet\&utm\_content=decentralised+applications+%28dapps%29)[a](https://crypto.com/university/decentralised-finance-defi-intro?utm\_source=crypto.com+university\&utm\_medium=referral\&utm\_campaign=what+is+a+crypto+wallet\&utm\_content=decentralised+applications+%28dapps%29)[pps)](https://crypto.com/university/decentralised-finance-defi-intro?utm\_source=crypto.com+university\&utm\_medium=referral\&utm\_campaign=what+is+a+crypto+wallet\&utm\_content=decentralised+applications+%28dapps%29).

It is important to remember that cryptocurrency transactions do not represent a ‘sending’ of crypto tokens from your mobile phone to someone else’s mobile phone. When you are sending tokens, you are actually using your private key to sign the transaction and broadcast it to the blockchain network. The network will then include your transaction to reflect the updated balance in your address and the recipient’s.

So, the term ‘wallet’ is actually somewhat of a misnomer as crypto wallets don’t really store cryptocurrency in the same way physical wallets hold cash. Instead, they read the public ledger to show you the balances in your addresses and also hold the private keys that enable you to make transactions.

**Not sure what a public or private key is?** \
A key is a long string of random, unpredictable characters. While a public key is like your bank account number and can be shared widely, your private key is like your bank account password or PIN and should be kept secret. In public-key cryptography, every public key is paired with one corresponding private key. Together, they are used to encrypt and decrypt data.
